Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
sci-fi, thriller film called “Surrogates.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In the near future, humans have created robots
that have replaced people for everyday life.
The surrogates, as they call them, are controlled
via stim chairs through neuropathic signals.
Humans remain in the safety of their homes as
their surrogates live their lives for them.
Crime rates plummet, and societal living
improves as racism and hate dwindle.
Around 98% of the population uses
surrogates, and it has become the new norm.
Recently, groups of people, called Dreads,
have started a movement against surrogates.
They brand the surrogates as lies and
deception. The Dreads have gathered
in small isolation zones in cities
worldwide and are led by Zaire Powell.
On a typical night, a rich young
man is chauffeured across town.
He tells his driver that their prior
destination, the theatre, might be a little dull.
The driver suggests a club instead,
and the man agrees. At the club,
the man dances with strangers, and a woman catches
his eye. They sneak to the back alley to kiss,
and a figure appears. The man tells the
figure to leave, calling the figure a
meat bag. The two are suddenly bathed in
electricity, and the figure rides away.
Agent Peters and Agents Greer from the F.B.I.
arrive at the scene and finds the man and the
woman surrogate. A police officer tells them the
male surrogate is unregistered while the female
is assigned to someone, but the owner hasn’t
filed any reports. They see the surrogates
have their eyes burnt out, and Greer sees the
memory chip on the male surrogate is fried.
Greer and Peters then head to the female
surrogate’s operator’s apartment and
find him dead with his nose bloody. Greer
looks at the last thing the surrogate saw,
and he sees the male surrogate’s eyes
burn and shatter before the feed cuts off.
Greer then heads home and takes a glass of
water to himself, revealing that Greer is
also a surrogate. The surrogate then steps
into a closet and parks itself. Greer then
gets up from his stim chair and glances at his
surrogate. He steps out of his room and into a
kid’s room. He sees a photo of him and his
wife with a child before closing the door.
He sees his wife’s surrogate, and Greer
suggests a vacation. His wife, Maggie,
suggests they could take their surrogates to
Hawaii, but Greer wishes to leave the surrogates
at home and for them to go out physically. He
says they haven’t been together in a while,
and Maggie appears to get upset. She says they’re
together every day, but Greer says it’s their
surrogates that spend the time together.
Maggie insists that it’s better that way.
In a college dormitory in San Diego, teens
find their friend, Jarid, on his stim chair,
lifeless and covered in blood.
The police chief, Andrew,
then briefs the station about the discovery.
They found that the two operators,
Jarid and the female surrogate operator, had their
brains liquified. It appears that whatever had
happened to their surrogates killed them. Greer
and Peters go through footage from the surrogates
and see a man carrying a weapon. Greer tells
Andrew that the case might be a homicide. They
then get a phone call telling them that Jarid
is the son of surrogate pioneer Lionel Canter.
A news report reveals that Lionel is considered by
many to be the father of surrogacy. He had built
his company, Virtual Self Industries or V.S.I.,
into one of the biggest corporations in the world.
Unfortunately, he had been ousted by his partners
several years ago. Humiliated and disowned by the
company he had built, Lionel had become a recluse,
avoiding the public eye for almost a decade.
Greer and Peters then visit Lionel. They’re
led in, and one of Lionel’s surrogates meets
them. Lionel then tells the detectives that Jarid
had been estranged from him since the beginning.
When Jarid went to college, Lionel
offered him to use any of his surrogates.
This was a means of bonding for the two.
Peters stresses the importance of not
allowing other users to borrow surrogates
registered to other individuals. Greer then
reiterates that they mean no offense and
they’re only trying to solve Jarid’s death.
Peters’ questioning angers Lionel, but
Greer tries to diffuse the situation,
telling Lionel that he empathizes with him as he
too had lost a son. Lionel pauses and calms down.
Greer asks if Lionel knows of anyone
who would want to harm himself or Jarid.
Lionel realizes that the assassination’s target
was him and not Jarid. The assassin didn’t know
that the person using Lionel’s surrogate was
Jarid. Upon realizing this, Lionel logs out of the
surrogate. Lionel sits weeping in his stim chair,
knowing he inadvertently caused his son’s death.
Greer and Peters then head to V.S.I.
and meet with representatives.
Greer asks if they know of any cases
involving a surrogate’s head exploding
and the surrogate operator dying. The
representatives become defensive and
ensure Greer that there are fail-safes
in place to protect from such accidents.
They then head to the engineering floor and meet
with one of the engineers. Greer shows him the
fried identity chip from Jarid’s surrogate,
and the engineer says the only thing that
could make this happen is if the circuits
all fired at once. The engineer also tells
them that a truckload of surrogates came from the
military with optics and identity chips missing.
Greer and Peters then head to a military
camp and watch surrogate soldiers on the
battlefield fighting a war. A surrogate gets
shot and destroyed, and the operator hops
right back in with a different surrogate.
The military colonel assures them that any
weapon used on a surrogate would not affect the
surrogate’s operator. He also mentions that the
military typically removes motherboards
and optics from surrogates for analysis.
Back at the station, Peters identifies
the man holding the weapon from the video
footage as non-surrogate user Miles. They
then head to the monitoring department,
where a non-surrogate technician, Bobby, tells
them Miles has been found. Greer heads up to
meet with the pursuit team, while Peters stays
behind with Bobby to monitor Miles’ whereabouts.
Bobby then tells Peters that finding Miles
was easy since they have access to all the
surrogates’ feeds in the city. An alarm goes
off, and Bobby sees a man harming a woman. He
calls it in and requests an immediate shutdown
of the assailant’s surrogate. Bobby receives the
disconnection warrant and immediately shuts the
surrogates down. Peters is shocked as she didn’t
know surrogates could be shut down remotely and
questions the procedure’s legality. Bobby says
it’s a brand new software and shrugs Peters’
concern off as the police are the good guys.
Peters, however, is more concerned about
the software getting into the wrong hands.
Miles rides his motorcycle through the streets
with police cars tailing close by. He swerves
through traffic, narrowly dodging oncoming
cars. Greer follows the pursuit on a helicopter.
Miles then crashes into an ally and gets cornered.
Police swarm him, and Miles takes out a weapon,
and the pursuing officers are blasted with a
wave of electricity. The police surrogates all
convulse, and their eyes pop out. He then
aims the device at the helicopter. Greer
falls flat and disconnects from the surrogate as
quickly as he can. The pilot is less fortunate,
and the helicopter starts spinning out of
control. Miles runs into a Dread settlement, and
the helicopter also starts drifting towards it.
Greer gets back into his surrogate only to crash
into the Dread isolation zone. Greer emerges from
the wreckage and starts chasing Miles. The dread
inhabitants are angered seeing a surrogate has
entered the zone and start chasing after Greer.
Greer and Miles run through the slums, making
their way through trailers. Miles tries initiating
the weapon, but it is currently disabled. Greer
leaps over trailers and climbs them with ease
until he corners Miles. Greer demands Miles
to give the weapon to him, and Miles complies,
handing Greer a bag. Before Greer could open
the bag, he gets blown away by a shotgun blast.
Miles takes the weapon back, and a woman
shoots Greer, calling him an abomination.
Greer leaves his surrogate and stumbles out
of his stim chair. He crawls on the floor,
calling for Maggie. She quickly
discovers Greer and calls an ambulance.
Miles later wakes up and sees the prophet,
Powell, and his men ransacking his house,
looking for the weapon. Powell asks where
the weapon came from, and Miles confesses
that he never found out who it was. They only
kept contact through disposable cellphones,
and he was only paid to use the weapon. A news
report later states that Powell sees the crashed
helicopter as an attack in the dreads’ home and
declares a revolution against surrogate users.
Meanwhile, Greer wakes up at the hospital,
and Adam tells him he’s been suspended.
Adam says he’d be handling the case
personally and advises Greer to rest.
Infuriated by the bureau’s decision,
Greer breaks out of the hospital.
He’s worried that the bureau may not
share his concern regarding Miles’ weapon.
Peters then meets with him, and they start
heading back to the station. As Greer walks,
he gets dizzy and disorientated. Peters says it’s
an effect of being in the surrogate for too long.
Greer decides to head to the Dread colony,
thinking he’d easily get in now that he’s not
using a surrogate. Inside, he sees his surrogate
crucified and finds out that Miles had died.
Powell speaks over Miles’ funeral and
reminds the attendees how Miles’ death
is a sign of true humanity, unlike the surrogates.
Greer approaches Powell after the
funeral, but Powell’s henchmen beat
him up after he refuses to leave. Powell
recognizes Greer as a surrogate user and
tells him feeling pain is as close to
the human experience he’ll ever get.
Greer asks about the weapon, but Powell laughs
at him and gives him a sarcastic answer.
Greer leaves, and Powell heads into his trailer
to retrieve the weapon hidden under the floor.
A car pulls up behind Greer, and he gets in.
A young boy speaks and reveals himself to be
another one of Lionel’s surrogates. Lionel says
he can’t use his usual surrogates because of
the attempt on his life. He then expresses
his frustration with how the investigation
into Jarid’s death is leading nowhere. Greer
tells Lionel that Jarid’s assassin had died,
and was killed by Powell. Greer then tells
Lionel how he had lost his son in a car
accident and that the worst thing in the
world is a parent outliving their child.
Lionel advises Greer to focus his investigation
on the weapon. If they find out where the
weapon came from, they’d know who wanted
Lionel dead. Lionel says the dreads are
incapable of producing such a weapon as it
would require a lot of research and money.
Greer then heads home and gets into an argument
with Maggie. He says that he only wants to be with
his wife, and Maggie says she is there. But Greer
says he wants his real wife, not a surrogate.
Maggie says things have changed and that she’s
not the same person. Maggie leaves Greer, enters
her room, and looks at herself. She takes her
goggles off and starts sobbing in her stim chair.
Greer heads back to the station and finds
information about V.S.I. making a weapon contract
with the military. The contract, however, is
quickly terminated, but the reason is classified.
Later that night, a surrogate breaks into
Peters’ home. It looks through recordings
of what Peters has seen and learns about Bobby and
the police’s ability to tap into all surrogates.
The surrogate then shoots a sleeping Peters
several times. It then takes Peters’ surrogate
and implants it with a remote operator. At
the station, Peters’ surrogate comes to life.
Greer meets with the military colonel the
following day and shows a picture of the weapon.
The colonel confesses that he knows of the
weapon’s existence and explains that it’s
an overload device created by V.S.I. for
the military. It was initially designed,
leading to operators dying. After the testing
period, all prototypes were believed to have been
destroyed. Greer then tells the colonel that
the dreads have the weapon. The colonel then
rushes out and tells Greer that the military
will take charge of the weapon’s retrieval.
At the dread zone, Powell hands the weapon to
his henchmen and tasks them to bring
it to Peters at the police station.
Meanwhile, Greer heads to Maggie’s salon and talks
to her about what happened the previous night.
Maggie is surprised to see Greer and
appears like she doesn’t want to discuss
what happened the night before. Greer brings
up their dead son, and Maggie is frustrated,
telling Greer that the only reason why Maggie is
still alive today is because of her surrogate,
which provided an escape from her life. Greer
tries appealing to Maggie, but she logs out
of the surrogate. At home, Maggie reaches for a
bottle from a pile of medication and takes one.
Meanwhile, the military has initiated an invasion
of the Dread zone to retrieve the weapon.
Soldiers pour out of helicopters, and
the dread inhabitants rush to hide.
Powell and his henchmen try to escape but run
into the soldiers. A firefight ensues between
Powell’s men and the military, but Powell’s men
are overpowered almost immediately. Powell gets
shot, and as the military approach, they see
that Powell, the leader of the anti-surrogacy
movement, is himself a surrogate. Lionel is
finally revealed to be Powell’s operator.
Greer meets with who believes is Peters, and
the surrogate reveals that Miles had been
working with Andrew. It turns out Andrew
had hired Miles to assassinate Lionel.
Greer then heads into the station to confront
Andrew about what he had found. Greer asks Andrew
what motivated him to have Lionel killed. Greer
theorizes that V.S.I. handed Andrew the weapon,
Andrew hired Miles to kill Lionel, but Miles
accidentally ends up killing Jarid. As Andrew
looks away, Greer stabs the surrogate at the back
of the head, shorting it out. He then hacks into
Andrew’s computer and downloads everything
that had any relation to V.S.I. and Miles.
He then meets with Peters’ surrogate, and they
drive out. From the files, Greer surmises that
Lionel is funding the anti-surrogacy movement,
oblivious to the possibility that Lionel could
have started the movement. Greer then finds the
codes necessary to activate the weapon. Peters
then calls the station, telling them of Greer’s
whereabouts. At that moment, a truck hits them,
and the car gets thrown. Peters walks away with
the weapon, but Greer decides to pursue Peters,
trying to run her over. The pair end up going
through busy streets, running over surrogates, and
smashing into other cars. Greer ends up crashing
into a store window, and Peters gets away.
Greer hides from the pursuing
F.B.I. agents and steals a car.
He calls Bobby and orders him to shut Peters’
surrogate down, but Peters has beaten him to it.
Bobby tells Greer that Peters is trying
to tap into the entire surrogate network.
Andrew heads to the monitoring level and faces
Peters. He tries to speak with Peters, but Lionel
reveals it’s him controlling Peters’ surrogate.
Andrews reasons with Lionel, saying the surrogates
are Lionel’s gift to the world, and now, Lionel
wants to destroy them. V.S.I. had no choice but to
have Lionel killed, as destroying the surrogates
would move humanity backward. Lionel then says
he only wants people to live like human beings.
He then fires the weapon at Andrew, shorting out
his surrogate’s computer and destroying it,
finally getting revenge for Jarid’s death.
Greer arrives at Lionel’s home and
demands to speak with the real Lionel.
He then forces his way in,
trying to find Lionel. Meanwhile,
Peters’ surrogate initiates a virus upload into
all the surrogates, intending to kill everyone
who are using surrogates. Greer finds a hidden
door and enters it to find Lionel’s chamber.
In the chamber, he finds many surrogates,
including Powell and the man that killed Peters.
Greer then finds Lionel sitting in a wheelchair,
pointing a gun at him. Lionel asks if Greer could
feel his accelerated pulse and sweating,
asking if he misses being human. He says
nobody knows how it feels to be human anymore,
so he’ll be the one to eliminate the surrogates.
He argues that the people inside surrogates are
already dead, so he’ll be doing humanity a favor
by killing all of them. He thinks surrogacy
is humanity’s perversion and a sick addiction.
A warning rings out that the virus upload
is completed. Now that his will is complete,
Lionel swallows a cyanide pill, taking his own
life. Greer then takes Lionel off the stim chair
and logs into Peters’ surrogate. He asks Bobby
how they could stop the virus before it transmits,
and Bobby talks him through it. With less than
a second left, Greer successfully stops the
transmission. The operators are safe, but
the virus is still active and would still
destroy surrogates. Bobby instructs Greer how
to prevent the surrogates from being destroyed,
while a team of operatives enters the facility. As
Greer is about to confirm the virus termination,
he pauses and instead decides to allow
the virus to be sent to surrogates.
Just as Greer presses the button, an
operative shoots Peters’ surrogate.
As the virus goes active, all the
surrogates suddenly turn lifeless.
Streets and buildings pile with deactivated
surrogates. Greer steps out to see the virus had
successfully disabled all the surrogates. People
begin leaving their houses dazed and confused,
some stepping out of their houses for the first
time in a while. Greer heads home and finally
sees his wife standing by the window. Maggie
touches Greer’s face and the two embrace.
News reports later state that surrogates worldwide
have been deactivated, but no reports of human
casualties have been listed. Humanity now stumbles
back into the world, unsure of what lies ahead.